PID Project 

in this project i will cover everything related to the PID

the key questions this project answers are 



1.What is a PID

A PID (process identification number) is an identification number that is automatically assigned to each process when it is created on a Unix-like operating system.


2.What is a process

A process is an executing (i.e., running) instance of a program. 


3.How to find a process’ PID


we can curretnly do this by using two commands the ps command or the pstree command
the ps command - finds the pid for the processes currntly in the system.
the pstree command - shows the process names and the pids in a tree diagram.

note - The top command also shows the PIDs of currently running processes along with other information about them, but it differs in that it continuously updates the information


4.How to kill a process

we would first use the ps aux | less or pstree -p this obtains the process pid,then after we use the kill command followed by the pid e.g mozilla pid which would be kill 1102


5.What is a signal?

A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.


6.What are the 2 signals that cannot be ignored.

the two linux signals that cannot be ignored are 

SIGKILL and SIGSTOP
SIGKILL If a process gets this signal, it must quit immediately and will not perform any clean-up operations.
SIGSTOP Issued if the user sends a quit signal (Ctrl + D).






